The topic is enumerated data type 'enum' that is a enumerated data type.
And also we will learn about the typedef. enum is useful for defining user defined data types means.
As a programmer we can define our own data types.
There are a lot of data types to given in C++ like integer float, double and so on.
If at all you want to define your own data type you can define but you can not introduce something new
you have to use these existing data type only and define them.
So let us see examples where we can use enum, first example in your application in your program
you are using department names like computer science department electronic communication engineering
department and information technology and civil engineering department.
You have to use these departments in your application like a student belongs to which a department you
want to check.
How do you want to store information or employee or faculty belongs to which department.
So there is something related to department.
Now the question is how do you represent department. will you write
The name of the department name of the department means it will be a string, ECE.
It's a string, now working with string is little time consuming because it's not one letter.
It's a set of characters.
We want to make it faster.
So mostly in daily life we find that if you have some commonly used terms or words we define codes for
them.
We define codes so in programming this is very common that if you have a limited set of words commonly
used then you can assign codes for them and you can use codes so for this departments.
I can give codes like let's say this is the department number one and this is two, this is three and this is
four, now one means the CS,  Two means electronics like this.
So we can use numbers instead of using strings.
So this will be faster and easy also for programming.
Similarly I have other examples.
Also let us look at them now.
This is file menu in any application.
If you open you will find a menu called file and that you will have some options I'm talking only about
file menu  not of what all others.
So this is file menu.
So for this let's say the code for this is zero.
This is one and this is 2 and 3.
New means 0, open means 1 save means two, close means 3, like this is menu
So menu driven program so menu options so and so option 0 means option new 1 means option open like this
you can give the codes similarly here if you are using days then Monday is 0 Tuesdays 1 then Wednesdays
at 2 and so on and these are playing cards.
See these are all the shapes so there are 4 different shapes of cards club spade Diamond and heart.
So for this also you can give codes right.
So in your application in your program 0 means club, 1 means a spade you can treat it like this.
So numeric values can represent those words right and same way for the feedback poor feedback or satisfactory
good and excellent.
You can give some codes.
So there's a common practice in daily life also we use codes.
Now these were the examples.
Now we want to learn how we can define these chords in our programs and use them.
So for this there are more than one options.
So first option I will tell you I take this example like CS, ECE for all this.
I can define constants I can say constants integer CS as one or constant integer E C E is two, now whenever
you say ECE it's not a string now,
Now it's a constant it's a value is two.
So like this for other two also we can do this so I can define constants.
So if there are 4 I can define four constants, there are 10 I can define 10 such constants in our application
wherever we write CS.
It should mean as one, it should mean as one a code is there for it.
So it's not a string.
Now it's a code.
This is one method. if I am defining like seven codes here.
This would be to lengthy.
So instead of dark.
Is there any way that we can collectively define them together.
Yes that is enem.
I can define them as enum all those constants together.
So for days I will show you so the method of defining enum is say enum and say day or days, plural whatever
it is.
Then what are the days Monday Tuesday.
In more cases I am writing wednesday then Thursday Friday Saturday and Sunday.
Now.
This means I'm defining all these constants together this is nothing but defining the constants like this.
Now Monday will be zero.
Tuesday will be one Wednesday it will be 2 and so on.
Automatically they will take all those values. so instead of writing them constants one by one seven times
I have to write down, instead you make it as a data type.
Now day is a new data type.
This is user defined data type, and what are the values it can have it have values from Monday
to Sunday.
So what is the value of Monday.
Monday is the 0, so automatically it takes.
This is as 0  this as 1 2 3 4 5 6 so it defines the collection of values with these figures or with these
codes automatically it happens. you don't have to mention 0 1 2 3 by default the first one is zero
the starting one is 0.
Now if I have defined this in my program then I can use it in my program.
Let us say inside the main function this is done outside the main function inside the main function.
I can declare the variable of type day now, day d is a variable of type day DNR.
See there's a variable. of which type? day type.
What is the day.
It's a data type, is it build in?  no we have defined it, this is our data type.
Yes.
Now what are the values that they can have.
You can assign anything from these set of values.
You can write Monday or you can write Friday.
Anything you can write to this one but you cannot directly assign the value zero now.
So this will be invalid.
You have to use those set of values only at any place in your program.
You want to check whether it is Monday or not.
So you have to check it like this.
If day is equals to Monday so you can check like this and if it is true then answer will be true and it will
enter into this if block.
So if for days is Monday it will be true. now let us define enum for this one for this one I remove this
and I will define. for this let's say enum and these are departments dept. now the Departments are CS
then ECE.
see if I write CS by default it will start from zero.
If you want to change it you can change the number.
So if you say CS assign one the next right.
Just E C E this will automatically become two.
So this is the starting point you can just mention the starting point right.
Then this becomes two and this becomes three and civil becomes four.
So this is one.
This is two this is three and this is four.
So if you mentioned some starting number then the remaining will take the next number automatically
takes that next time.
Now in my program inside the main function if I want to declare a variable of type Department dept.
d then D assign CS like this you can use or any other department you can assign, so you can declare
the variable which can have only these set of values.
You cannot write anything other than this.
Next here I will change some values but I will remove this.
Suppose I say Monday as one so this will be one if I write just a Tuesday.
Then automatically it will be two then for Wednesday I will write five.
So this will become five.
Then Thursday if I say this will automatically becomes a six right.
Then Friday it will automatically become seven then Saturday.
If I say nine then it will become nine then Sunday it will become ten.
So I can mention the values are different places.
I can change the values but the next term or the next constant will be a next number.
Like if this is one then automatically, I'm not assigning here anything,
So this will become two right.
No this is five.
I'm not assigning any value here so this will become six the next number it would take for the next
constant that really defining.
So this is about enum this feature is available but how to use it.
It's all up to a programmer.
First of all programmers should think about He need some codes.
If he's not a using codes then he cannot think of using enum.
First of all if you're following a approach that you are assigning codes to some some strings or some
names then you can think of using enum So utilizing it or not is a user's choice.
It's not frequently used if it is used in the programming will be more better.
So the program will be more readable so you don't have to write on the course like just 0 1 2 3 you
can use the names like this CS, ECE, I.T. So the program becomes more readable and easy for programming.
If a project is very lengthy, its a very big project then it will be very easy for working in that project.
If you use the names. then next we will see.
Typedef.  Now
Let us look at typedef that is type  definition.
What is this.
So for explanation I have taken one example here.
So if you see this example I have some variables.
All these are of type Integer these are off type integer, now variable names if you see  M1 M2 M3, r1
r2 r3.
So what is this.
See I have not use meaningful name a readable name.
So usually programmers they will have the habit of doing this like you when you are learning no C++
now for quickly practicing you will give the names like this you will not give lengthy names or more
meaningful names and that will become your habit.
So even in your real projects or the major projects also you will follow the same thing.
So give them names like this and if this type of names are given they are not readable and if the project
is becoming Lengthy and is taking much time it is very tough for you to work on the project because you
yourself cannot figure out what is m1 what is m2 today  you wrote something.
Tomorrow you come back to work and again you read the code.
What is this m1 I forgot for what I declare.
So this type of problem arises if you're not using readable or meaningful name.
So this issue is readability issue right.
Again I tell you it's a readability issue not what I want this.
I want to make those variable meaningful so if not the names if I cannot give names at least this data
types should tell me what is that.
So yes that I can do it using typedef.
So let us do it.
I will define it I guess.
So actually this m1, m2, m3
Three are the marks, r1 r2  r3 are roll numbers both are of integer type.
So here I will define typedef.
So this is type definition integer marks.
And one more typedef.
integer.
Roll number.
Inside main function I would declare the variable now m1 m2 and m3
I will declare them off type marksm1 m2  m3 then r1 r2 r3 are of type roll number.
So r1, r2 r3.
These are the roll no's,  what are the roll numbers.
What is it.
integer type.
these are useful for defining user defined data type.
Yes we have our own data type now.
Now there's nothing but the change of name of integer.
Right.
So int we are calling it as marks, marks is integer, marks is an integer.
So now.
Even if I use m1, m2 m3 and I forgot.
What is this.
So if I come at this declaration point I can know that.
Okay.
This is for Marks m1, m2 m3 are for marks.
and r1 r2 r3 are roll number of storing roll number.
So instead of giving documentation or giving lengthy name you cannot use follow this one.
So this is not related to efficiency or the speeding up of a program this is just related to readability
of a program.
We can make the program more readable by introducing typedef so I already told you the issue.
The problem faced by the programmer.
They forget the things in the project is going lengthy.
So this is how you can make it easy for you to remember the things or to recall the things by giving
proper type definitions.
Again this depends on the program or how he utilizes right and what type of project and what are its
habits programming habits.
So where ever useful if you try to go on using this one then it will do better.
So while practicing whenever you identify oh I can use typedef, you use it.
So that's all about typedef.
So there is a demo video after this one so you can watch it then I'm showing you how to declare and
use it.
So you can practice on this one.
So that's all in this video.